[BELLS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
host of "Mystery Teachings."
Today, we're going to
meditate on the archetypes
of the Chariot and Strength.
And together, they help us to
harness our will and our life
force.
The Chariot helps establish
equilibrium at all levels,
leading to greater self-mastery
and victory in life,
while Strength helps us to
balance our use of force
with love in order
to achieve grace.
Well, here's a
formula that you can
follow for invoking these two
archetypes into your life.
We'll first work with
one card at a time,
beginning with the Chariot.
Once you're ready, find the
Chariot card in your deck,
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
and if you have a
meditation stool or cushion,
you can sit on that with
a table in front of you,
and the card is
upright on the table
so that you can look at it.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body, and
begin to empty your mind,
and make sure that
you bring yourself
into a positive, or at least
a neutral state of being,
so that nothing
is disturbing you,
either mentally or emotionally.
Find that state of peace
within, that stillness.
And then once you've
established that, open your eyes
and look at the image of the
chariot card for about five
to 10 minutes with
your eyes open.
Study its imagery
and its symbolism.
Take in all the details.
Really ingrain this
upon your mind.
Memorize its
features, and notice
all the little subtleties
that maybe you've
even missed before.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Then after those
five to 10 minutes
of working with the card
with your eyes open,
you're going to take it inside
and work with it in your mind.
With your eyes closed,
begin to build up
the image of the chariot
within your mind.
And do this for
about 10 minutes.
Recall all the details.
Build up that image.
Imagine that the frame of
the card is like a door,
and on the other
side of that door,
you see the scenery of
this card taking shape.
Bring all the details,
the symbols, the colors,
all the characters of the
card, and recreate them
within your mind's eye.
Once this has been firmly
established within your mind,
let the card come to life.
Imagine walking through the
doorway into the scenery,
and let it become
a three-dimensional
virtual-reality
experience for you.
Allow the characters
to come to life.
Observe their
behavior for a while.
Notice what they do,
any messages they
might have, and feel the
energy of the Chariot.
Sense the courage and the
strength of the charioteer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you begin to
connect to this energy
and you're feeling it
emanate within you,
then you want to merge
with the Chariot.
Become the charioteer.
Imagine yourself in the
chariot, the sphinxes below you
that you control with your mind.
You're strong.
You're prepared.
You are ready to embark
upon your grand adventure.
Really feel the charioteer
come alive within you,
and allow this energy
to integrate in.
When you feel this
energy integrated,
then you're going to
stand up and actually take
on the posture of the chariot.
Assume his archetypal form.
His body position is facing
square on, perfectly balanced
in the middle pillar.
Take on this position.
Feel the charioteer
alive within you.
And then state this
affirmation, "I
am the child of the
powers of the waters
and the lord of the
triumph of light.
My soul is a chariot
for the universal will."
As you make that statement,
allow those words
to reverberate
within your being,
to awaken you at
a cellular level.
And really feel that
rise up within you,
that energy of the chariot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you feel
complete with that,
we're going to now move
on to the Strength card.
So we're going to do the same
process with the Strength card,
taking out Strength,
putting it up
where we can meditate upon it
with our eyes open for five
to 10 minutes, working with
all the details in the same way
as before.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then once you've worked
with all those details
and you've really
memorized the image,
you're going to take
it inside, and you're
going to close your eyes and
work with it in your inner mind
for another 10 minutes.
Recreating the image of
strength fully within your mind,
feel and see the
energy of strength,
the grace of strength.
Imagine that doorway that leads
out to the scenery of the card.
Bring in all the details of
the colors, the characters.
And then when you feel that
this is firmly established,
move through the doorway.
Allow the scenery to take
on a three-dimensional form
around you, and let
it come to life.
Let strength become animated.
Observe her and her
interaction with the lion.
Feel her energy in
her ways of being.
Notice her grace and ease
as she works with her lion.
Feel the love that emanates.
Once you feel this connection
to the energy of Strength,
merge with Strength.
Become Strength.
See her come alive within
you, and see yourself
in this position of strength.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then when you feel
integrated with this energy,
you're going to stand
up and actually take
on the posture of Strength.
Assume the archetypal
form, imagining
the lion or your animal
nature by your left side.
And you are gently and
lovingly holding its head
and closing its jaw.
From this position, also
say this affirmation.
"I am the leader of the lion
and the daughter of the flaming
sword."
I harness the fires
of transformation
with a perfect balance
of love and strength."
Allow that to reverberate within
you, to awaken that strength
within yourselves.
And really let it integrate.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then when
you're ready, you're
going to place both the Strength
and the Charity cars next
to each other, with
the Chariot on the left
and Strength on the right.
And we're going to meditate
on these cards together.
Notice how they contrast
with each other.
Notice also, how they
complement each other.
The Chariot stimulates your
receptivity of higher will.
And then Strength stimulates
your application of life force
with love, strength, and grace.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them
into our outer life
so that we can manifest them.
Different ways of
doing that include
bringing the primary
colors of orange
and yellow into your
environment or into the clothes
that you wear.
Also, continue meditating daily
on the symbols and the images
of these two cards
for the next week,
and work with the affirmations
that we just used.
Keep contemplating the
meaning of each card
and how it applies
into your life.
And then watch
for the archetypes
to appear in your life,
whether in your dreams
or other synchronicities,
and analyze their messages.
Pay attention.
Also, really take note of
how you embody the strengths
and weaknesses of each
one of these archetypes,
and consciously work to make
improvements in these areas.
And again, realize that when
we work with the archetypes,
they will set forces
in motion in our life.
So if you want to engage with
this in an experiential way,
then really commit to seeing
it all the way through.
We're going to work
with each archetype
in the particular
sequence that is
given as we go through this
season of "Mystery Teaching."
So don't skip steps.
Do them one at a time, and
really give it your attention.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of tarot and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]